[HOLD] update GitHub + GitLab triage through comments process info (#1785)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-code/triage-remediation.md

</details>

## Ignore findings through PR and MR comments

Triage your Semgrep AppSec Platform findings displayed as comments in GitHub PRs and GitLab MRs by replying with another comment.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="current"
    values={[
        {label: 'GitHub', value: 'current'},
        {label: 'GitHub (beta)', value: 'gh'},
        {label: 'GitLab (beta)', value: 'gl'}
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='current'>

> :::info Prerequisites

Reviewer: We should probably make this consistent with the other tabs (i.e. not a callout box)

> - A **private** GitHub.com repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub.com repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **private** GitHub Free or Team cloud-hosted repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.
```
Just trying to use the specific plan terms as provided in https://github.com/pricing, which is our source of truth.

    | <code>/other <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** without specifying the reason; the triage reason value is set to **No triage reason**. |
    | <code>/open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**. The comment is optional. |
    | <code>/remember <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | [Add Assistant Memories](/semgrep-assistant/getting-started#add-memories-beta). |

Semgrep is backward compatible with the following triage through comments commands:
- <code>/semgrep ignore <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - triage a finding as **Ignored**.
- <code>/semgrep open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**.

Triaging a finding as **Ignored** through a comment in GitHub changes the status of the finding to **Ignored** in the Semgrep AppSec Platform. However, the GitHub conversation itself is not automatically resolved by this process.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='gl'>

:::info Prerequisites

> You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).

Author: @Zhou-Duo do you know what GitLab plans are supported?

You can also reopen a finding that was previously ignored. To do so, in step 2. of the preceding procedure, use `/semgrep open`. For `/semgrep open` the reason field is optional.
:::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gh'>

> :::caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution
```
I think this is usually the blue or white callout box (`info` or `note`)?

> This feature is currently in private beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently in **private beta**. It expands on the existing ignore-by-PR-comment workflow by supporting additional commands such as adding to Assistant memories and enabling developers to include triage **reasons**.
```

:::

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```
I think?

> - A **private** GitHub.com repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub.com repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **private** GitHub Free or Team cloud-hosted repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.
```

- You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).

> To enable triage through comments:

Reviewer: I think this needs a header (`## SOME_HEADER`) because otherwise it looks like the process is under **Prerequisites**.

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, go to your organization's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) page.
2. Under **Code (SAST)**, click the **Triage via code review comments** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle to turn on this feature.

To triage a finding:

1. Find an open comment created by Semgrep AppSec Platform in your pull request or merge request:
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform comment in GitHub](/img/semgrep-app-comment-github-beta.png#md-width)

> 2. In a subsequent comment, reply with the corresponds with the action you want to take. If necessary, ensure that you substitute the colored placeholder `<comment>` with text to help the reader understand why the status of a comment is ignored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In a subsequent comment, reply with the action you want to take. If necessary, ensure that you substitute the colored placeholder `<COMMENT>` with text to help the reader understand why the status of a comment is ignored:
```

    | Comment | Description |
    | - | - |
    | <code>/fp <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** with the triage reason **false positive**. |
    | <code>/ar <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** with the triage reason **acceptable risk**. |
    | <code>/other <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** without specifying the reason; the triage reason value is set to **No triage reason**. |
    | <code>/open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**. The comment is optional. |
    | <code>/remember <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | [Add Assistant Memories](/semgrep-assistant/getting-started#add-memories-beta). |

> Semgrep is backward compatible with the following triage through comments commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep is backward compatible with the following commands:
```
Think it's ok to remove because this section is all about triage commands.

- <code>/semgrep ignore <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - triage a finding as **Ignored**.
- <code>/semgrep open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**.

Triaging a finding as **Ignored** through a comment in GitHub changes the status of the finding to **Ignored** in the Semgrep AppSec Platform. However, the GitHub conversation itself is not automatically resolved by this process.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='gl'>

> :::caution

Reviewer: Same note as above.

> This feature is currently in private beta.

Reviewer: Same note as above.

:::

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).

> To enable triage through comments:

Reviewer: I think this needs a header (`## SOME_HEADER`) because otherwise it looks like the process is under **Prerequisites**.

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, go to your organization's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) page.
2. Under **Code (SAST)**, click the **Triage via code review comments** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle to turn on this feature.

To triage a finding:

1. Find an open comment created by Semgrep AppSec Platform in your pull request or merge request:
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform comment in GitLab](/img/semgrep-app-comment-gitlab.png#md-width)

> 2. In a subsequent comment, reply with the corresponds with the action you want to take. If necessary, ensure that you substitute the colored placeholder `<comment>` with text to help the reader understand why the status of a comment is ignored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In a subsequent comment, reply with the corresponds with the action you want to take. If necessary, ensure that you substitute the colored placeholder `<comment>` with text to help the reader understand why the finding has been triaged as **ignored**:
```

"why the status of a comment is ignored" sounds a little unclear.

    | Comment | Description |
    | - | - |
    | <code>/fp <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** with the triage reason **false positive**. |
    | <code>/ar <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** with the triage reason **acceptable risk**. |
    | <code>/other <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Triage a finding as **Ignored** without specifying the reason; the triage reason value is set to **No triage reason**. |
    | <code>/open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | Reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**. The comment is optional. |
    | <code>/remember <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> | [Add Assistant Memories](/semgrep-assistant/getting-started#add-memories-beta). |

> Semgrep is backward compatible with the following triage through comments commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep is backward compatible with the following commands:
```
Think it's ok to remove because this section is all about triage commands.

- <code>/semgrep ignore <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - triage a finding as **Ignored**.
- <code>/semgrep open <span className="placeholder">&lt;comment&gt;</span></code> - reopen a finding that has been triaged as **Ignored**.

> Triaging a finding as **Ignored** through a comment in GitLab changes the status of the finding to **Ignored** in the Semgrep AppSec Platform. However, the GitLab conversation itself is not automatically resolved by this process.

Reviewer: Nice bit to point out in case people get confused by the behavior. 👍
